# T2ICLP dataset
### Project Profile
  This repository is used for presentations on the T2ICLP dataset.Here, we have uploaded 50 images within the T2ICLP dataset, along with the corresponding text descriptions.
### FHS-Adapter
With the continuous breakthroughs in generative artificial intelligence technologies, text-to-image techniques based on diffusion models have made significant progress due to their large-scale training on massive multimodal datasets, generating more and more realistic images. However, the current diffusion model-based text-to-image methods often use English descriptions and generate mostly natural landscapes, and there are few studies for the task of generating landscape paintings with Chinese characteristics. How to migrate pre-trained diffusion model-based text-to-image models to adapt them to domain generation tasks is a common problem. Among them, the generation task for Chinese characteristic landscape paintings lacks the fine-grained background information of the paintings and the pre-training process uses a large amount of data from non-landscape paintings, which makes the generation process easy to be influenced by other styles of images, resulting in the generation results losing the characteristics of Chinese paintings. In this paper, we propose a Fine-grained Hierarchical Semantic Adapter (FHS-Adapter) method for the task of generating Chinese landscape paintings. The method guides the diffusion process in batches by utilizing external fine-grained information from multiple perspectives, aiming at inputting into the denoising unet model according to a specific guiding order, controlling the diffusion process in the diffusion, and gradually decreasing the influence of other style images retained in the pre-trained diffusion model, so as to retain more elements of landscape paintings. The encoder part is also replaced with the taiyi-CLIP encoder adapted to Chinese. Before training, this paper also produces T2ICLP, a multimodal dataset containing 10,000 high-quality image-text pairs of Chinese landscape paintings, through the method of automatic construction of the large language model and manual review, which is used to support the training of the model. Unlike previous datasets, this dataset extracts fine-grained textual information from four perspectives, including: historical background information (History), description of the content of the picture (Content), information about the emotion embedded in the painting (Emotion), and a few lines of traditional Chinese poems that best summarize the picture (Poem). Finally, this paper presents a multi-perspective side-by-side comparison of the proposed model with the current mainstream commercial and non-commercial diffusion-based T2I models for generating Chinese landscape paintings. Through metrics and anonymous user ratings, our FHS-Adapter method performs well in simulating various evaluation metrics such as brushwork (e.g., "Chafing, Rubbing, Dabbing and Colouring"), compositional space, elemental proportions, and color usage of different painting genres and artists.	
### code
 We will upload the training as well as the test code and the full dataset at an appropriate time!
